---
title: Engaging Users in Resource Ecosystem Building for Local Heritage-Led Knowledge
location: Sustainability-MDPI
href: https://www.mdpi.com/2071-1050/14/8/4575
---

The aim of this paper is to form an analytical and critical framework to
consider the uses of digital platforms in heritage field and practices and to
provide methodologies for user profiling based on the identification of local
stakeholders and their needs. Within the context of the EU H2020 research
project RURITAGE, a resource ecosystem (RRE) of various integrated tools was
created for shaping and addressing heritage-led knowledge and bottom-up
strategies of local regeneration. More specifically, the RRE was conceived to
provide local stakeholders with new methodologies and user-friendly tools based
on bottom-up processes for identifying and actioning heritage and territorial
features and turning these cultural natural values—as well as the gaps—into
opportunities. This paper undertakes a comparative analysis of the integration
of tools in other digital platforms for heritage practices and/or regeneration
processes to explore the holistic approach to heritage knowledge and the
effectiveness in engaging local stakeholders. In addition, it frames
methodologies for local stakeholder and related needs identification. Through
this comparative analysis among digital heritage platforms and through user
profiling to target the needs of users by using the RRE as a case study, the
paper explores the challenge of helping communities to shape a local
heritage-led collaborative knowledge supported by integrated and user-friendly
digital tools and to activate them in preserving and exploiting their
territories and building shared and plural cultural heritage understandings,
considering cultural heritage as a social need.
                  
